# Detecting-Malicious-Websites


Detect Malicious websites using supervised machine learning Malicious websites are of great concern to users and organisations nowadays because they rely on web-pages, including online shopping, obtaining information etc. and it threatens the privacy and security of users, organisation, governments as there is a problem in analysing every website one by one and to index each URL in a blacklist. Even if we cannot observe a part of malicious data, we can always observe compromised websites. Since vulnerable websites are discovered by search engines, compromised websites have similar traits. Therefore, we built a classifier by leveraging not only malicious websites but also compromised websites. Unfortunately, there are lack of datasets which can identify the difference between malicious and benign websites on the basis of their characteristics. To achieve this in our project, we have gathered datasets from multiple resources and categorized them with attributes which define the type of the website. In this project, we address the detection of malicious websites based on their features gathered from multiple sources and use machine learning classification techniques to test and train for future predictions.Therefore, we built a classifier by leveraging not only malicious websites but also benign websites. More precisely, we use classification algorithms such as Logistic Regression, Random Forest Classifier and Support Vector Machine (SVM). To perform classification, we integrated two large datasets one consists of predictor variable as URL and response variable as type furthermore in the second dataset we gathered information about websites such as URL, URL_LENGTH, SERVER, CHAR_SET, Domain location, etc. and their response variable as type which indicate whether it is malicious or benign. As a result of evaluating our system with crawling data of around 345000 URLs combining both datasets, we supposed that they were malicious according to their information, in a next step to verify the records in the dataset we used another security tool, VirusTotal. Hence, providing security and privacy of the user information and system is one of the main concerns of our project. In our project, we use supervised learning methods of machine learning. We learn about the fundamental differences between the three different techniques of supervised learning, i.e. Logistic Regression, Random Forest Classifier and Support Vector Machine (SVM).
